>> Mike: So with that,
let's begin with talking about what
a progressive web app is, right?
It's it is a term of art these days, and
it was coined I believe
in 2014 by Alex Russel and Jake Archibald,
who are Google Developer advocates
that work closely on the Chrome team.
And it was an effort to put a name behind
a forward looking web experience, right?
Something that is no longer looking at
the oldest most limited browser that
we have to support, but rather adopting
this idea of progressive enhancement.
So we say progressive enhancement
as a core tenet and the idea is,
where something is available to
enrich our users experience?
We use it, we don't wait for everyone,
all of the browsers that we need to
support to build in what we need.
It's not the lowest common denominator
that is driving the way we think anymore.
It is allowing us to have
a rich experience with these
superhero characteristics for those
modern browsers that can support it and
then gracefully, degrading or
falling back to a more basic experience.
And this would be what like maybe
your IE10 user or IE9 user might see.
A common characteristic of PWAs or
Progressive Web Apps is that they
surprise and delight users by
delivering things that people don't
typically see in web applications, and
this includes working offline,
the ability to have push notifications.
These are things we typically
see in native apps.
These used to be reasons where you'd say,
a web experience is not,
that's not going to cut it for our
flagship mobile app,
web technology is holding us back.
And the idea is we're starting to chip
away at that and now there are fewer and
fewer little reasons that would sort of
kick you into developing a native app.
Nowadays it's almost
like if you need games,
if you need hardware accelerated graphics,
things like that,
now maybe that is what propels you
into we must use a native app.
But more and more, like the web
is offering better primitives and
options for us that look pretty promising.
As far as what these options are,
and again, I'm borrowing this from
Alex Russel and Jake Archibald.
So these are ten characteristics
that they list and
these are sort of the superhero powers.
So progressive web apps,
they are progressive in that they work for
a variety of browsers.
But where modern features are available,
like the ability to send push
notifications, we take advantage of that.
They're responsive because
mobile web traffic has eclipsed
desktop traffic in every way.
In page views, in number of unique users,
we're past every benchmark
that we care about.
Mobile web that is not
the niche experience anymore,
it is the the main sharer
of most business' traffic.
So progressive web apps should
work regardless of flaky or
absent network connections.
And this is traditionally,
a big limitation that you have to
deal with when building for the web.
If you have no Internet,
you can't download that java script for
that CSS, your AJAX doesn't work.
These are things we need in order
to do anything interesting at all.
Progressive web apps are app like,
meaning you are prompted to
add them to your home screen
with the home screen icon, and
you can launch them from there,
potentially without the browser UI.
Like the back button in
the bookmark button,
it can be a sort of full screen web
experience that a user might forget
that they didn't get
this from the App Store.
They might be so seamless that
it trick them to that extent.
PWAs should get up to date content
when it's available without a complex
installation process.
So raise your hand if you
enjoy app updates when you
have 14 apps that I need to download.
And that's like a gigabyte
of Swift code and
libraries that are compiled just for
that device.
We wanna be able to stay at most a couple
hundred kilobytes and be able to send
a new file over to the user seamlessly.
Where they don't have to click anything or
install anything.
Security is a big deal, so
we've got about 56% of the Internet
on HTTPS now and
it is linearly increasing.
So many of these technologies we'll
be working with today require HTTPS.
And so, it was an opportunity where
certain things were getting rewritten, and
these standards were developed.
And while we were at it the idea is, well,
let's say that this feature only works
if we're operating in a secure way.
And so we will start to see
that become a common theme.
And that by the way is
why the setup process for
this project is a little complicated.
Currently and hopefully in the future,
this will be less necessary or
unnecessary.
Currently we need to build our own
self-signed certificate that we can use so
that even in development
mode we're working in HTTPS.
>> Mike: PWAs are discoverable so
they should have rich metadata associated
with different URLs so
that when you search on a search engine,
you got a rich tile that comes back with
all that needs structuring data around it.
And not sort of the Wikipedia article
not to ripe with the Wikipedia but
that is the basic experience.
If the web browser is a document viewer,
that is a site that is
comprised of documents.
PWA should be re-engageable and
we will see that today in
the form of notifications.
Meaning the user can do something,
close their tab,
walking away, and then get a notification
that sorta pulls them back into the app.
Again, this might have been the leading
reason, or it was very high on the list
for reasons people opted out of using
web technology for mobile apps.
They needed push notifications and
there was only way to get that.
>> Mike: PWA should be durable and by that
we mean they should be able to store data
in a way that survives across
different browser tab lifetimes.
And you're probably used to cookies,
local storage,
things like that,
we're not going to be using those today.
They're very limited and we'll go
into reasons why they are limited,
but that is what we mean by durable.
Like we store data in a way that
it doesn't evaporate as soon
as the user walks away.
And then finally,
one of the great things about
the web that is influenced
native mobile apps is URLs.
The ability to hand someone something to
click on and they'll get just to the right
view that they were shared,
that someone shared to someone else.
In native apps,
this is done by way of deep links.
So if you've ever seen Spotify:// and
then some song title
you can click on that and Spotify will
kinda grab that and respond accordingly.
PWA should bring along all of these
important defining characteristics
of web applications while introducing
this native paper as well.
So we're trying to have
the best of both worlds
not compromising any of that web goodness.
So, a lot to think about,
we're going to touch on
all of this,
we have 14 exercises plan for you.
And we're going to take every
one of these boxes, which it is
gonna be a very well rounded PWA
experience, will get today and tomorrow.